---
layout: post
title: Blog Tech, Part 6 - Syntax Highlighting with Pygments
tags:
- blogging
- heroku
---
Python and Pygments.

Technology 13: Pygments
---
One of my previous posts included some code, but it was simply marked up with a &lt;pre&gt; &lt;/pre&gt; block.  No good - I wanted some, *any*, syntax highlighting ASAP.  One quick search later, and I was looking into the Python-based syntax highlighter [Pygments](http://pygments.org/) (Get it?  *Py*thon? *Py*gments?)  Jekyll [supports Pygments via its Liquid templates](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/templates/), and is now enabled by default.

Just include something like this in your Markdown:

{% raw %}
    {% highlight ruby %}
    def foo
      puts 'foo'
    end
    {% endhighlight %}
{% endraw %}

Doing this tells Jekyll to generate HTML with a bunch of classes to colorize and otherwise handle the code according to the language of choice.  Then, including the Pygments CSS file will render the colors and fonts appropriately.

(To see *how* I rendered that code snippet up above, complete with the highlight liquid markup *in* a .md file, check out the project\'s source code.  Or, check out [this Stackoverflow question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3426182/how-to-escape-liquid-template-tags))

Technology 14: Python
---
Notice that I said that you need Python for Pygments.   That's fine locally (on my Mountain Lion Mac), but what do I do in Heroku to enable Python?

I followed [Heroku\'s advice](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/python-support) and it was pretty easy.  Essentially:

- Create an empty `requirements.txt` in the root director of the project, to tell Heroku that I expect Python to be activated in the Cedar stack.
- Optionally, create a `runtime.txt` to specify the version of Python that I want.  I don\'t really care, so I didn\'t bother.
