---
title: My Git Hooks, Part 2 - Making a Git Hook
tags:
- git
date: 2014-02-05 10:00:00
layout: post
---

This is Part 2 of a series of posts on my git hooks.  [Part 1](/2014/02/03/githooks-1.html) described why I did this, and why it's in *Ruby*.  For reference, here's a link to [some git hook documentation](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Customizing-Git-Git-Hooks).

Creating a Git Hook
----
Git Hooks are executable files with certain names in your project's `/.git/hooks` directory.  Initializing your git repository creates that directory with a bunch of sample files with bogus names.  Rename them, or great you own, and you've got a hook.  

I want a client-side hook that runs on the local machine, before I get a chance to push changes to a remote repo.  In particular I want `pre-commit`, the hook that runs first on every commit attempt.  So I create a `.git/hooks/pre-commit` file, make sure that it's executable, and write it so that it look at a commit to decide whether or not to allow it.  

How do I do that?  `git` passes no arguments to the hook; it doesn't need to.  A pre-commit hook gleans *everything it needs* from the `git` command and other commands. It's an executable file running *in* the git repo, just have it inspect the repo!

Examining the Commit
-----
I'll skip over how to use `git` to get the relevant changes.  All of that is in [the pre-commit hook file in GitHub](https://github.com/bobgilmore/githooks/blob/master/pre-commit).  What's important is that I get references to the changed blocks of code.  Then I start looping over the blocks, along with the path to the file.[^nocontext]

[^nocontext]: The code examines only the changed lines of code without context.  This could miss forbidden code constructs across line boundaries, but they're rare.  If I notice that context *around* a change is needed frequently to avoid problems, I'll deal with it.

Now that I have the changes, I can start looping over them.  At its heart, the pre-commit hook is just a big regular expression matcher, checking to see if the file contains any "forbidden" strings.  Things like...

* `<<<<`, `>>>>`, or `====`[^equalsinmd], which usually mean an incomplete git merge.
*  `console.log`  calls[^nodeignore], which will fail in IE.
*  `PRIVATE KEY`, which is a tipoff that you're about to commit a private key for all the world to see to GitHub (oops!), and
*  `alert` (Really?  Plain alert boxes?)

[^equalsinmd]: A few equals signs in a Markdown file makes perfect sense, so I ignore them in .md and .mmd files.  I figure that looking for `<<<<` and `>>>>` is enough.
[^nodeignore]: console.log makes sense in a Node project, but I can't ignore it based on file extension since both Node and client-side JavaScript use .js.  I plan to detect project type using Heroku-like heuristics, and then ignore console.log checks in Node projects.  See [my GitHub issue regarding this](https://github.com/bobgilmore/githooks/issues/8).

Even if I find an error immediately I loop over *all* of the changes and print error messages for *all* of the suspect lines with file names. Only then do I fail the commit with a nonzero exit code.

Overriding the Checks
-----
The hook doesn't have to take every edge case into account, so sometimes I play a little fast and loose.  Again, the point is to prevent embarrassing accidents, *not* to be foolproof!

If a user thinks that there was a false positive, or just wants to ignore my hard-won advice ("I **like** bare alert boxes!"), it's easy to ignore it.  Git has a `--no-verify` flag.  Just run the commit again with that flag, and the `pre-commit` hook won't be run that time.   That's a pretty big hammer, though; it forces git to skip the `pre-commit` check entirely.

To help the committer ignore the checks when he needs to, I always add the following message to the bottom of every failed commit:

    --------------
    To commit anyway, use --no-verify

Tools and IDEs don't make it easy to pass that `--no-verify` flag.  I'm OK with that.  Learn to do easy git tasks (like commits) from the command line.  You'll thank me later.

No "Fast-Fail"
----
This is why it's important to *not* "fail-fast," but to run through *all* changes and display *all* problems.  Fail-fast checking can lead to really bad `--no-verify` calls.  Consider a commit with one "harmless" failure followed by many "bad" calls. In a "fast-fail" implementation, the user could...

1.  See *only* the first problem,
2.  Decide to ignore it, and
3.  Commit with `--no-verify`.

Boom!  Bugs galore.  Instead, I report *all* problems, to let the user make informed decisions.

Next
----
In the next few posts I'll get into...

* Special cases for certain file types,
* Per-project customization,
* Distribution ideas and best practices, and
* Setting up git to "guarantee" that this becomes part of your workflow.

Footnotes
----
