---
title: My Git Hooks, Part 1 - I Need a Hook
tags:
- git
date: 2014-02-03 10:00:00
layout: post
---

This is part one of my N-part (come on, I'm not *planning* this), slightly-too-elaborate git pre-commit hook story.  

For reference, my git commit hooks repo is [here](https://github.com/bobgilmore/githooks), help yourself and follow along!

Origin
----
A while ago I noticed that every few months I (or my colleagues) repeated the same mistakes when committing code. Even our strict code review regimen (ah, those were the days!  Don't get me started...) wouldn't prevent them.  Most were either...

* The kind of thing that was too easy to gloss over during a code review ("Oh, *that*?  Yeah, that's just debugging code.  I'll rip that out before I commit.  Here, let me make a note of that..."), or
* Version skew issues.  For example, we were deploying to a Ruby 1.87 environment, but most of us used 1.9 locally, so things like JSON hash syntax and Hash#flatten kept slipping in.

I got tired of repeating them, so I decided to write some git hooks to stop it.

I *Am* a *Ruby* Developer, Right?
-----
At the time I was focused on Ruby on Rails, so I decided to write them *in* Ruby.  After all, a hook (especially a pre-commit hook) is just a script that lives in a predefined location and:

1. (Optionally) examines the commit and any other information that it feels is necessary,
1. (Optionally) prints any necessary diagnostics or other messages, and
1. Returns a value, either `0` for success or non-zero for failure.

Well, a Ruby script can do all of that.  Run some git code to look at the files (and lines) being changed, test some criteria (simple regexps at first; they got more complicated later), print any error messages, and return either `0` or `1`?  Easy-peasy!

Looking around a bit I found Henrik Nyh's Ruby-based (and Ruby-centric) [git pre-commit hooks](https://github.com/henrik/dotfiles/tree/master/git_template/hooks) on GitHub, and I was on my way.

Next
-----
Next time I'll get into some of the technical details of writing a git-commit hook, and a description of the basic implementation.  Later I'll go into more advanced topics, my distribution method, and per-project customization.  Eventually I'll get into incorporating this into a multi-project ecosystem.



