---
layout: post
title: |
    &quot;Comments&quot; in .railsrc
date: 2014-01-06 08:45:00
tags:
- rails
---
In the last few years I've found two situations where comments aren't *really* comments - here's one.

I prefer Postgres to SQLite for Rails projects.  I also like to avoid the initial `bundle` on project creation.  So I made a `~/.railsrc` file that looked like this, 

    --skip-bundle -d postgresql

A few weeks ago I wanted to ditch the postgresql bit, but leave a comment showing how to restore it.  So I changed it to something like this:

    --skip-bundle 
    # Uncomment the following line to use postgres in new projects
    # -d postgresql

I saved it, created a new project, and it *still* generated postgress-based Rails projects.  What?

The command line showed what was really being run. Rails takes the contents of the `.railsrc` file it finds, concatenates the lines together, and passes the whole thing to the Rails command line.

So, when I ran 

    rails new project_name

with that `.railsrc` file, I was really executing...

    rails new project_name --skip-bundle # Uncomment the following \
    line to use postgres in new projects # -d postgresql

Yeah, see that?  I'm still passing `-d postgresql` as one of **many** named arguments.  "Commenting" the line didn't really do anything.  I had to make it more abstract ("dash then the fourth letter"... type stuff) to work "correctly."

So, lesson; starting a line in a `.railsrc` file (and perhaps others) with a hash doesn't do much of anything.  It just, well, throws a hash into the options.